now Solomon assembled the elders of
now Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes
Israel and all the heads of the tribes
Israel and all the heads of the tribes the chief fathers of the children of
the chief fathers of the children of
the chief fathers of the children of Israel to King Solomon in Jerusalem that
Israel to King Solomon in Jerusalem that
Israel to King Solomon in Jerusalem that they might bring up the Ark of the
they might bring up the Ark of the
they might bring up the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord from the City of
Covenant of the Lord from the City of
Covenant of the Lord from the City of David which is Zion therefore all the
David which is Zion therefore all the
David which is Zion therefore all the men of Israel assembled with King
men of Israel assembled with King
men of Israel assembled with King Solomon at the feast in the month of
Solomon at the feast in the month of
Solomon at the feast in the month of ethylene which is the seventh month so
ethylene which is the seventh month so
ethylene which is the seventh month so all the elders of Israel came and the
all the elders of Israel came and the
all the elders of Israel came and the priests took out the ark then they
priests took out the ark then they
priests took out the ark then they brought up the Ark of the law the
brought up the Ark of the law the
brought up the Ark of the law the tabernacle of meeting and all the holy
tabernacle of meeting and all the holy
tabernacle of meeting and all the holy furnishings that were in the tabernacle
furnishings that were in the tabernacle
furnishings that were in the tabernacle the priests and the Levites brought them
the priests and the Levites brought them
the priests and the Levites brought them out also King Solomon and all the
out also King Solomon and all the
out also King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel who were
congregation of Israel who were
congregation of Israel who were assembled with him were with him before
assembled with him were with him before
assembled with him were with him before the ark sacrificing sheep and oxen that
the ark sacrificing sheep and oxen that
the ark sacrificing sheep and oxen that could not be counted or numbered for
could not be counted or numbered for
could not be counted or numbered for multitude then the priests brought in
multitude then the priests brought in
multitude then the priests brought in the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord to
the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord to
the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord to its place into the inner sanctuary of
its place into the inner sanctuary of
its place into the inner sanctuary of the temple to the most holy place under
the temple to the most holy place under
the temple to the most holy place under the wings of the cherubim for the
the wings of the cherubim for the
the wings of the cherubim for the cherubim spread their two wings over the
cherubim spread their two wings over the
cherubim spread their two wings over the place of the Ark and the cherubim
place of the Ark and the cherubim
place of the Ark and the cherubim overshadowed the Ark and its poles the
overshadowed the Ark and its poles the
overshadowed the Ark and its poles the poles extended so that the ends of the
poles extended so that the ends of the
poles extended so that the ends of the poles could be seen from the holy place
poles could be seen from the holy place
poles could be seen from the holy place in front of the inner sanctuary but they
in front of the inner sanctuary but they
in front of the inner sanctuary but they could not be seen from the outside
could not be seen from the outside
could not be seen from the outside [Music]
[Music]
[Music] and they are there to this day nothing
and they are there to this day nothing
and they are there to this day nothing was in the arc except the two tablets of
was in the arc except the two tablets of
was in the arc except the two tablets of stone which Moses put there at her end
stone which Moses put there at her end
stone which Moses put there at her end when the Lord made a covenant with the
when the Lord made a covenant with the
when the Lord made a covenant with the children of Israel when they came out to
children of Israel when they came out to
children of Israel when they came out to the land of Egypt and it came to pass
the land of Egypt and it came to pass
the land of Egypt and it came to pass when the priests came out of the holy
when the priests came out of the holy
when the priests came out of the holy place but the cloud filled the house of
place but the cloud filled the house of
place but the cloud filled the house of the Lord so that the priests could not
the Lord so that the priests could not
the Lord so that the priests could not continue ministering because of a cloud
continue ministering because of a cloud
continue ministering because of a cloud for the glory of the Lord filled the
for the glory of the Lord filled the
for the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord then Solomon spoke the
house of the Lord then Solomon spoke the
house of the Lord then Solomon spoke the Lord said he would dwell in the dark
Lord said he would dwell in the dark
Lord said he would dwell in the dark cloud
cloud
cloud I have surely built you an exalted house
I have surely built you an exalted house
I have surely built you an exalted house and a place for you to dwell in forever
and a place for you to dwell in forever
and a place for you to dwell in forever then the king turned around and blessed
then the king turned around and blessed
then the king turned around and blessed the whole Assembly of Israel while all
the whole Assembly of Israel while all
the whole Assembly of Israel while all the Assembly of Israel was standing
the Assembly of Israel was standing
the Assembly of Israel was standing blessed be the Lord God of Israel who
blessed be the Lord God of Israel who
blessed be the Lord God of Israel who spoke with his mouth to my father David
spoke with his mouth to my father David
spoke with his mouth to my father David and with his hand has fulfilled it
and with his hand has fulfilled it
and with his hand has fulfilled it saying since the day that I brought my
saying since the day that I brought my
saying since the day that I brought my people Israel out of Egypt I have chosen
people Israel out of Egypt I have chosen
people Israel out of Egypt I have chosen no city from any tribe of Israel in
no city from any tribe of Israel in
no city from any tribe of Israel in which to build a house that my name
which to build a house that my name
which to build a house that my name might be there but I chose David to be
might be there but I chose David to be
might be there but I chose David to be over my people Israel now it was in the
over my people Israel now it was in the
over my people Israel now it was in the heart of my father David to build a
heart of my father David to build a
heart of my father David to build a temple for the name of the Lord God of
temple for the name of the Lord God of
temple for the name of the Lord God of Israel but the Lord said to my father
Israel but the Lord said to my father
Israel but the Lord said to my father David whereas it was in your heart to
David whereas it was in your heart to
David whereas it was in your heart to build a temple for my name you did well
build a temple for my name you did well
build a temple for my name you did well that it was in your heart nevertheless
that it was in your heart nevertheless
that it was in your heart nevertheless you shall not build the temple but your
you shall not build the temple but your
you shall not build the temple but your son who will come from your body he
son who will come from your body he
son who will come from your body he shall build the temple for my name so
shall build the temple for my name so
shall build the temple for my name so the Lord has fulfilled his word which he
the Lord has fulfilled his word which he
the Lord has fulfilled his word which he spoke and I have filled the position of
spoke and I have filled the position of
spoke and I have filled the position of my father David and sit on the throne of
my father David and sit on the throne of
my father David and sit on the throne of Israel as the Lord promised and I have
Israel as the Lord promised and I have
Israel as the Lord promised and I have built a temple for the name of the Lord
built a temple for the name of the Lord
built a temple for the name of the Lord God of
God of
God of ray'll and their I have made a place for
ray'll and their I have made a place for
ray'll and their I have made a place for the ark in which is the Covenant of the
the ark in which is the Covenant of the
the ark in which is the Covenant of the Lord which he made with our fathers when
Lord which he made with our fathers when
Lord which he made with our fathers when he brought them out of the land of Egypt
he brought them out of the land of Egypt
he brought them out of the land of Egypt then Solomon stood before the altar of
then Solomon stood before the altar of
then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the
the Lord in the presence of all the
the Lord in the presence of all the Assembly of Israel and spread out his
Assembly of Israel and spread out his
Assembly of Israel and spread out his hands toward heaven and he said Lord God
hands toward heaven and he said Lord God
hands toward heaven and he said Lord God of Israel there is no God in heaven
of Israel there is no God in heaven
of Israel there is no God in heaven above or on earth below like you who
above or on earth below like you who
above or on earth below like you who keep your covenant and mercy with your
keep your covenant and mercy with your
keep your covenant and mercy with your servants who walk before you with all
servants who walk before you with all
servants who walk before you with all their hearts you have kept what you
their hearts you have kept what you
their hearts you have kept what you promised your servant David my father
promised your servant David my father
promised your servant David my father you have both spoken with your mouth and
you have both spoken with your mouth and
you have both spoken with your mouth and fulfilled it with your hand
fulfilled it with your hand
fulfilled it with your hand as it is this day therefore Lord God of
as it is this day therefore Lord God of
as it is this day therefore Lord God of Israel
Israel
Israel now keep what you promised your servant
now keep what you promised your servant
now keep what you promised your servant David my father saying you shall not
David my father saying you shall not
David my father saying you shall not fail to have a man sit before me on the
fail to have a man sit before me on the
fail to have a man sit before me on the throne of Israel only if your sons take
throne of Israel only if your sons take
throne of Israel only if your sons take heed to their way that they walk before
heed to their way that they walk before
heed to their way that they walk before me as you have walked before me
me as you have walked before me
me as you have walked before me and now I pray O God of Israel let your
and now I pray O God of Israel let your
and now I pray O God of Israel let your word come true which you have spoken to
word come true which you have spoken to
word come true which you have spoken to your servant David my father but will
your servant David my father but will
your servant David my father but will God indeed dwell on the earth behold
God indeed dwell on the earth behold
God indeed dwell on the earth behold heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot
heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot
heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain you how much less this temple
contain you how much less this temple
contain you how much less this temple which I have built yet regard the prayer
which I have built yet regard the prayer
which I have built yet regard the prayer of your servant and his supplication o
of your servant and his supplication o
of your servant and his supplication o Lord my God and listen to the cry and
Lord my God and listen to the cry and
Lord my God and listen to the cry and the prayer which your servant is praying
the prayer which your servant is praying
the prayer which your servant is praying before you today that your eyes may be
before you today that your eyes may be
before you today that your eyes may be open toward his temple night and day
open toward his temple night and day
open toward his temple night and day toward the place of which you said my
toward the place of which you said my
toward the place of which you said my name shall be there that you may hear
name shall be there that you may hear
name shall be there that you may hear the prayer which your servant makes
the prayer which your servant makes
the prayer which your servant makes toward this place and may you hear the
toward this place and may you hear the
toward this place and may you hear the supplication of your servant and of your
supplication of your servant and of your
supplication of your servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this
people Israel when they pray toward this
people Israel when they pray toward this place here in heaven your dwelling place
place here in heaven your dwelling place
place here in heaven your dwelling place and when you hear forgive when anyone
and when you hear forgive when anyone
and when you hear forgive when anyone sins against his neighbor and is forced
sins against his neighbor and is forced
sins against his neighbor and is forced to take an oath and comes and takes an
to take an oath and comes and takes an
to take an oath and comes and takes an oath before your altar in this temple
oath before your altar in this temple
oath before your altar in this temple then here in heaven and act and judge
then here in heaven and act and judge
then here in heaven and act and judge your servants condemning the wicked
your servants condemning the wicked
your servants condemning the wicked bringing his way on his head and
bringing his way on his head and
bringing his way on his head and justifying the righteous by giving him
justifying the righteous by giving him
justifying the righteous by giving him according to his righteousness when your
according to his righteousness when your
according to his righteousness when your people Israel are defeated before an
people Israel are defeated before an
people Israel are defeated before an enemy because they have sinned against
enemy because they have sinned against
enemy because they have sinned against you and when they turned back to you and
you and when they turned back to you and
you and when they turned back to you and confess your name and pray and make
confess your name and pray and make
confess your name and pray and make supplication to you in this temple then
supplication to you in this temple then
supplication to you in this temple then here in heaven and forgive the sin of
here in heaven and forgive the sin of
here in heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them back
your people Israel and bring them back
your people Israel and bring them back to the land which you gave to their
to the land which you gave to their
to the land which you gave to their fathers when the heavens are shut up and
fathers when the heavens are shut up and
fathers when the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because they have
there is no rain because they have
there is no rain because they have sinned against you when they pray toward
sinned against you when they pray toward
sinned against you when they pray toward this place
this place
this place and confess your name and turn from
and confess your name and turn from
and confess your name and turn from their sin because you afflict them then
their sin because you afflict them then
their sin because you afflict them then here in heaven and forgive the sin of
here in heaven and forgive the sin of
here in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants your people Israel that
your servants your people Israel that
your servants your people Israel that you may teach them the good way in which
you may teach them the good way in which
you may teach them the good way in which they should walk and sent rain on your
they should walk and sent rain on your
they should walk and sent rain on your land which you have given to your people
land which you have given to your people
land which you have given to your people as an inheritance when there is famine
as an inheritance when there is famine
as an inheritance when there is famine in the land pestilence or blight or
in the land pestilence or blight or
in the land pestilence or blight or mildew locusts or grasshoppers when
mildew locusts or grasshoppers when
mildew locusts or grasshoppers when their enemy besieges them in the land of
their enemy besieges them in the land of
their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities whatever plague or whatever
their cities whatever plague or whatever
their cities whatever plague or whatever sickness there is whatever prayer
sickness there is whatever prayer
sickness there is whatever prayer whatever supplication is made by anyone
whatever supplication is made by anyone
whatever supplication is made by anyone or by all your people Israel when each
or by all your people Israel when each
or by all your people Israel when each one knows the plague of his own heart
one knows the plague of his own heart
one knows the plague of his own heart and spreads out his hands toward this
and spreads out his hands toward this
and spreads out his hands toward this temple then here in heaven your dwelling
temple then here in heaven your dwelling
temple then here in heaven your dwelling place and forgive and act and give to
place and forgive and act and give to
place and forgive and act and give to everyone according to all his ways whose
everyone according to all his ways whose
everyone according to all his ways whose heart you know for you alone know the
heart you know for you alone know the
heart you know for you alone know the hearts of all the sons of men that they
hearts of all the sons of men that they
hearts of all the sons of men that they may fear you all the days that they live
may fear you all the days that they live
may fear you all the days that they live in the land which you gave to our
in the land which you gave to our
in the land which you gave to our fathers
fathers
fathers moreover concerning a foreigner who is
moreover concerning a foreigner who is
moreover concerning a foreigner who is not of your people Israel but has come
not of your people Israel but has come
not of your people Israel but has come from a far country for your namesake for
from a far country for your namesake for
from a far country for your namesake for they will hear of your great name and
they will hear of your great name and
they will hear of your great name and your strong hand and your outstretched
your strong hand and your outstretched
your strong hand and your outstretched arm when he comes and prays towards this
arm when he comes and prays towards this
arm when he comes and prays towards this temple here in heaven your dwelling
temple here in heaven your dwelling
temple here in heaven your dwelling place and do according to all for which
place and do according to all for which
place and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to you that all
the foreigner calls to you that all
the foreigner calls to you that all peoples of the earth may know your name
peoples of the earth may know your name
peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you as do your people Israel
and fear you as do your people Israel
and fear you as do your people Israel and that they may know that this temple
and that they may know that this temple
and that they may know that this temple which I have built is called by your
which I have built is called by your
which I have built is called by your name when your people go out to battle
name when your people go out to battle
name when your people go out to battle against their enemy wherever you send
against their enemy wherever you send
against their enemy wherever you send them and when they pray to the Lord
them and when they pray to the Lord
them and when they pray to the Lord toward the city which you have chosen
toward the city which you have chosen
toward the city which you have chosen and the temple which I have built for
and the temple which I have built for
and the temple which I have built for your name then here in heaven their
your name then here in heaven their
your name then here in heaven their prayer and their supplication and
prayer and their supplication and
prayer and their supplication and maintained their cause when they sin
maintained their cause when they sin
maintained their cause when they sin against you for there is no one who does
against you for there is no one who does
against you for there is no one who does not sin and you become angry with them
not sin and you become angry with them
not sin and you become angry with them and deliver them to the enemy and they
and deliver them to the enemy and they
and deliver them to the enemy and they take them captive to the land of the
take them captive to the land of the
take them captive to the land of the enemy far or near
enemy far or near
enemy far or near yet when they come to themselves in the
yet when they come to themselves in the
yet when they come to themselves in the land where they were carried captive and
land where they were carried captive and
land where they were carried captive and repent and make supplication to you in
repent and make supplication to you in
repent and make supplication to you in the land of those who took them captive
the land of those who took them captive
the land of those who took them captive saying we have sinned and done wrong we
saying we have sinned and done wrong we
saying we have sinned and done wrong we have committed wickedness and when they
have committed wickedness and when they
have committed wickedness and when they returned to you with all their heart and
returned to you with all their heart and
returned to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their
with all their soul in the land of their
with all their soul in the land of their enemies who led them away captive and
enemies who led them away captive and
enemies who led them away captive and prey to you toward their land which you
prey to you toward their land which you
prey to you toward their land which you gave to their fathers the city which you
gave to their fathers the city which you
gave to their fathers the city which you have chosen and the temple which I have
have chosen and the temple which I have
have chosen and the temple which I have built for your name then here in heaven
built for your name then here in heaven
built for your name then here in heaven your dwelling place their prayer and
your dwelling place their prayer and
your dwelling place their prayer and their supplication and maintained their
their supplication and maintained their
their supplication and maintained their cause and forgive your people who have
cause and forgive your people who have
cause and forgive your people who have sinned against you and all their
sinned against you and all their
sinned against you and all their transgressions which they have
transgressions which they have
transgressions which they have transgressed against you and grant them
transgressed against you and grant them
transgressed against you and grant them compassion before those who took them
compassion before those who took them
compassion before those who took them captive that they may have compassion on
captive that they may have compassion on
captive that they may have compassion on them for they are your people and your
them for they are your people and your
them for they are your people and your inheritance whom you brought out of
inheritance whom you brought out of
inheritance whom you brought out of Egypt out of the iron furnace that your
Egypt out of the iron furnace that your
Egypt out of the iron furnace that your eyes may be open to the supplication of
eyes may be open to the supplication of
eyes may be open to the supplication of your servant and the supplication of
your servant and the supplication of
your servant and the supplication of your people Israel to listen to them
your people Israel to listen to them
your people Israel to listen to them whenever they call to you for you
whenever they call to you for you
whenever they call to you for you separated them from among all the
separated them from among all the
separated them from among all the peoples of the earth to be your
peoples of the earth to be your
peoples of the earth to be your inheritance as you spoke by your servant
inheritance as you spoke by your servant
inheritance as you spoke by your servant Moses when you brought our fathers out
Moses when you brought our fathers out
Moses when you brought our fathers out of Egypt Oh Lord God and so it was when
of Egypt Oh Lord God and so it was when
of Egypt Oh Lord God and so it was when Solomon had finished praying all this
Solomon had finished praying all this
Solomon had finished praying all this prayer and supplication to the Lord that
prayer and supplication to the Lord that
prayer and supplication to the Lord that he arose from before the altar of the
he arose from before the altar of the
he arose from before the altar of the Lord from kneeling on his knees with his
Lord from kneeling on his knees with his
Lord from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread up to heaven then he stood
hands spread up to heaven then he stood
hands spread up to heaven then he stood and blessed all the Assembly of Israel
and blessed all the Assembly of Israel
and blessed all the Assembly of Israel with a loud voice
with a loud voice
with a loud voice blessed be the Lord who has given rest
blessed be the Lord who has given rest
blessed be the Lord who has given rest to his people Israel according to all
to his people Israel according to all
to his people Israel according to all that he promised there has not failed
that he promised there has not failed
that he promised there has not failed one word of all his good promise which
one word of all his good promise which
one word of all his good promise which he promised through his servant Moses
he promised through his servant Moses
he promised through his servant Moses may the Lord our God be with us as he
may the Lord our God be with us as he
may the Lord our God be with us as he was with our fathers may he not leave us
was with our fathers may he not leave us
was with our fathers may he not leave us nor forsake us that he may incline our
nor forsake us that he may incline our
nor forsake us that he may incline our hearts to himself to walk in all his
hearts to himself to walk in all his
hearts to himself to walk in all his ways and to keep his Commandments and
ways and to keep his Commandments and
ways and to keep his Commandments and his statutes and his judgments which he
his statutes and his judgments which he
his statutes and his judgments which he commanded our fathers and may these
commanded our fathers and may these
commanded our fathers and may these words of mine with which I have made
words of mine with which I have made
words of mine with which I have made supplication before the Lord be near the
supplication before the Lord be near the
supplication before the Lord be near the Lord our God day and night that he may
Lord our God day and night that he may
Lord our God day and night that he may maintain the cause of his servants and
maintain the cause of his servants and
maintain the cause of his servants and the cause of his people Israel as each
the cause of his people Israel as each
the cause of his people Israel as each day may require that all the peoples of
day may require that all the peoples of
day may require that all the peoples of the earth may know that the Lord is God
the earth may know that the Lord is God
the earth may know that the Lord is God there is no other that your heart
there is no other that your heart
there is no other that your heart therefore be loyal to the Lord our God
therefore be loyal to the Lord our God
therefore be loyal to the Lord our God to walk in his statutes and keep his
to walk in his statutes and keep his
to walk in his statutes and keep his Commandments as at this day then the
Commandments as at this day then the
Commandments as at this day then the king and all Israel with him offered
king and all Israel with him offered
king and all Israel with him offered sacrifices before the Lord
sacrifices before the Lord
sacrifices before the Lord and Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace
and Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace
and Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace offerings which he offered to the Lord
offerings which he offered to the Lord
offerings which he offered to the Lord 22,000 bulls and 120,000 sheep so the
22,000 bulls and 120,000 sheep so the
22,000 bulls and 120,000 sheep so the king and all the children of Israel
king and all the children of Israel
king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the Lord on the
dedicated the house of the Lord on the
dedicated the house of the Lord on the same day the King consecrated the middle
same day the King consecrated the middle
same day the King consecrated the middle of the court that was in front of the
of the court that was in front of the
of the court that was in front of the house of the Lord for there he offered
house of the Lord for there he offered
house of the Lord for there he offered burnt offerings grain offerings and the
burnt offerings grain offerings and the
burnt offerings grain offerings and the fat of the peace offerings because the
fat of the peace offerings because the
fat of the peace offerings because the bronze altar that was before the Lord
bronze altar that was before the Lord
bronze altar that was before the Lord was too small
was too small
was too small to receive the burnt offerings the grain
to receive the burnt offerings the grain
to receive the burnt offerings the grain offerings and the fat of the peace
offerings and the fat of the peace
offerings and the fat of the peace offerings at that time Solomon held a
offerings at that time Solomon held a
offerings at that time Solomon held a feast and all Israel with him a great
feast and all Israel with him a great
feast and all Israel with him a great assembly from the entrance of amath to
assembly from the entrance of amath to
assembly from the entrance of amath to the brook of Egypt before the Lord our
the brook of Egypt before the Lord our
the brook of Egypt before the Lord our God seven days and seven more days 14
God seven days and seven more days 14
God seven days and seven more days 14 days on the eighth day he sent the
days on the eighth day he sent the
days on the eighth day he sent the people away and they blessed the king
people away and they blessed the king
people away and they blessed the king and went to their tents joyful and glad
and went to their tents joyful and glad
and went to their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the good that the Lord
of heart for all the good that the Lord
of heart for all the good that the Lord had done for his servant David and for
had done for his servant David and for
had done for his servant David and for Israel his people